Edge Summaries
BACKGROUND EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Alertness Novice +2 to Notice rolls.

Ambidextrous Novice, AGI d8 Ignore –2 penalty when making Trait rolls with off-hand.

Arcane Background Novice Allows access to the Arcane Backgrounds listed in Chapter Five.

Arcane Resistance Novice, SPI d8 Arcane skills targeting the hero suffer a −2 penalty (even if cast by allies!); magical damage is reduced by 2.

Improved Arcane Resistance Novice, Arcane Resistance As Arcane Resistance except penalty is increased to −4 and magical damage is reduced by 4.

Aristocrat Novice +2 to Common Knowledge and networking with upper class.

Attractive Novice, VIG d6 +1 to Performance and Persuasion rolls.

Very Attractive Novice, Attractive +2 to Performance and Persuasion rolls.

Berserk Novice After being Shaken or Wounded, melee attacks must be Wild Attacks, +1 die type to Strength, +2 to Toughness, ignore one level of Wound penalties, Critical Failure on Fighting roll hits random target. Take Fatigue after every five consecutive rounds, may choose to end rage with Smarts roll –2.

Brave Novice, SPI d6 +2 to Fear checks and –2 to rolls on the Fear Table.

Brawny Novice, STR d6, VIG d6 Size (and therefore Toughness) +1. Treat Strength as one die type higher for Encumbrance and Minimum Strength to use weapons, armor, or equipment.

Brute Novice, STR d6, VIG d6 Link Athletics to Strength instead of Agility (including resistance). Short Range of any thrown item increased by +1. Double that for the adjusted Medium Range, and double again for Long Range.

Charismatic Novice, SPI d8 Free reroll when using Persuasion.

Elan Novice, SPI d8 +2 when spending a Benny to reroll a Trait roll.

Fame Novice +1 Persuasion rolls when recognized (Common Knowledge), double usual fee for Performance.

Famous Seasoned, Fame +2 Persuasion when recognized, 5× or more usual fee for Performance.

Fast Healer Novice, VIG d8 +2 Vigor when rolling for natural healing; check every 3 days.

Fleet-Footed Novice, AGI d6 Pace +2, increase running die one step.

Linguist Novice, SMA d6 Character has d6 in languages equal to half her Smarts die.

Luck Novice +1 Benny at the start of each session.

Great Luck Novice, Luck +2 Bennies at the start of each session.

Quick Novice, AGI d8 The hero may discard and redraw Action Cards of 5 or lower.

Rich Novice Character starts with three times the starting funds and a $150K annual salary.

Filthy Rich Novice, Rich Five times starting funds and $500K average salary.

COMBAT EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Block Seasoned, Fighting d8 +1 Parry, ignore 1 point of Gang Up bonus.

Improved Block Veteran, Block +2 Parry, ignore 2 points of Gang Up bonus.

Brawler Novice, STR d8, VIG d8 Toughness +1, add d4 to damage from fists; or increase it a die type if combined with Martial Artist, Claws, or similar abilities.

Bruiser Seasoned, Brawler Increase unarmed Strength damage a die type and Toughness another +1.

Calculating Novice, SMA d8 Ignore up to 2 points of penalties on one action with an Action Card of Five or less.

Combat Reflexes Seasoned +2 Spirit to recover from being Shaken or Stunned.

Counterattack Seasoned, Fighting d8 Free attack against one foe per turn who failed a Fighting roll.

Improved Counterattack Veteran, Counterattack As Counterattack, but against three failed attacks per turn.

Dead Shot Wild Card, Novice, Athletics or Shooting d8 First successful Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll, double damage from when dealt a Joker.

Dodge Seasoned, AGI d8 −2 to be hit by ranged attacks.

Improved Dodge Seasoned, Dodge +2 to Evasion totals.

Double Tap Seasoned, Shooting d6 +1 to hit and damage when firing no more than RoF 1 per action.

Extraction Novice, AGI d8 One adjacent foe doesn’t get a free attack when you withdraw from close combat.

Improved Extraction Seasoned, Extraction Three adjacent foes don’t get free attacks when you withdraw from combat.

Feint Novice, Fighting d8 You may choose to make foe resist with Smarts instead of Agility during a Fighting Test.

First Strike Novice, AGI d8 Free Fighting attack once per round when foe moves within Reach.

Improved First Strike Heroic, First Strike Free Fighting attack against up to three foes when they move within Reach.

Free Runner Novice, AGI d8 Ignore Difficult Ground and add +2 to Athletics in foot chases and Athletics (climbing).

Frenzy Seasoned, Fighting d8 Roll a second Fighting die with one melee attack per turn.

Improved Frenzy Veteran, Frenzy Roll a second Fighting die with up to two melee attacks per turn.

Giant Killer Veteran +1d6 damage vs. creatures three Sizes larger or more.

Hard to Kill Novice, SPI d8 Ignore Wound penalties when making Vigor rolls to avoid Bleeding Out.

Harder to Kill Veteran, Hard to Kill Roll a die if the character perishes. Even if he’s Incapacitated, he survives somehow.

Improvisational Fighter Seasoned, SMA d6 Ignore –2 penalty when attacking with improvised weapons.

Iron Jaw Novice, VIG d8 +2 to Soak and Vigor rolls to avoid Knockout Blows.

Killer Instinct Seasoned The hero gets a free reroll in any opposed Test he initiates.

Level Headed Seasoned, SMA d8 Draw an additional Action Card each round in combat and choose which one to use.

Improved Level Headed Seasoned, Level Headed Draw two additional Action Cards each round in combat and choose which one to use.
Headed choose which one to use.

Marksman Seasoned, Athletics or Shooting d8 Ignore up to 2 points of penalties from Range, Cover, Called Shot, Scale, or Speed; or add +1 to first Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll. Character may not move or fire greater than RoF 1.

Martial Artist Novice, Fighting d6 Unarmed Fighting +1, fists and feet count as Natural Weapons, add d4 damage die to unarmed Fighting attacks (or increase die a step if you already have it).

Martial Warrior Seasoned, Martial Artist Unarmed Fighting +2, increase damage die type a step.

Mighty Blow Wild Card, Novice, Fighting d8 On first successful Fighting roll, double damage when dealt a Joker.

Nerves of Steel Novice, VIG d8 Ignore one level of Wound penalties.

Improved Nerves of Steel Novice, Nerves of Steel Ignore up to two levels of Wound penalties.

No Mercy Seasoned +2 damage when spending a Benny to reroll damage.

Rapid Fire Seasoned, Shooting d6 Increase RoF by 1 for one Shooting attack per turn.

Improved Rapid Fire Veteran, Rapid Fire Increase RoF by 1 for up to two Shooting attacks per turn.

Rock and Roll! Seasoned, Shooting d8 Ignore the Recoil penalty when firing weapons with a RoF of 2 or more. Character may not move.

Steady Hands Novice, AGI d8 Ignore Unstable Platform penalty; reduce running penalty to –1.

Sweep Novice, STR d8, Fighting d8 Fighting roll at –2 to hit all targets in weapon’s Reach, no more than once per turn.

Improved Sweep Veteran, Sweep As above, but ignore the –2 penalty.

Trademark Weapon Novice, d8 in related skill +1 to Athletics (throwing), Fighting, or Shooting total with a related skill specific weapon; +1 Parry while weapon is readied.

Improved Trademark Weapon Seasoned, Trademark Weapon The attack and Parry bonus increases to +2.

Two-Fisted Novice, AGI d8 Make one extra Fighting roll with a second melee weapon in the off-hand at no Multi-Action penalty.

Two-Gun Kid Novice, AGI d8 Make one extra Shooting (or Athletics (throwing) roll with a second ranged weapon in the off-hand at no Multi-Action penalty.


LEADERSHIP EDGES (COMMAND RANGE IS 5” OR 10 YARDS)
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Command Novice, SMA d6 +1 to Extras’ Shaken or Stunned recovery rolls.

Command Presence Seasoned, Command Increase Command Range to 10″ (20 yards)

Fervor Veteran, SPI d8, Command Extras in range add +1 to their Fighting damage rolls.

Hold the Line Seasoned, SMA d8, Command +1 to Extras’ Toughness in Command Range.

Inspire Seasoned, Command Once per turn, the hero may roll his Battle skill to Support one type of Trait roll, and apply it to everyone in Command Range.

Natural Leader Seasoned, SPI d8, Command Leadership Edges now apply to Wild Cards.

Tactician  Seasoned, SMA d8, Command, Battle d6 Draw an extra Action Card each turn that may be assigned to any allied Extra in Command Range.

Master Tactician Veteran, Tactician Draw and distribute two extra Action Cards instead of one.

POWER EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Artificer Seasoned, Arcane Background Allows user to create Arcane Devices.

Channeling Seasoned, Arcane Background Reduce Power Point cost by 1 with a raise on the activation roll.

Concentration Seasoned, Arcane Background Double Duration of non-Instant powers.

Extra Effort Seasoned, Arcane Background (Gifted), Focus d6 Increase Focus by +1 for 1 Power Point or +2 for 3 Power Points.

Gadgeteer Seasoned, Arcane Background (Weird Science),Weird Science d6 Spend 3 Power Points to create a device that replicates another power.

Holy/Unholy Warrior Seasoned, Arcane Background (Miracles), Faith d6 Add +1 to +4 to Soak rolls for each Power Point spent.

Mentalist Seasoned, Arcane Background (Psionics), Psionics d6 +2 to opposed Psionics rolls.

New Powers Novice, Arcane Background Your character knows two new powers.

Power Points Novice, Arcane Background Gain 5 additional Power Points, no more than once per Rank.

Power Surge Wild Card, Novice, Arcane Background, arcane skill d8 Recover 10 Power Points when dealt a Joker in combat.

Rapid Recharge Seasoned, SPI d6, Arcane Background Recover 10 Power Points per hour.

Improved Rapid Recharge Veteran, Rapid Recharge Recover 20 Power Points per hour.

Soul Drain Seasoned, Arcane Background, arcane skill d10 Recover 5 Power Points for a level of Fatigue.

Wizard Seasoned, Arcane Background (Magic), Spellcasting d6 Spend 1 extra Power Point to change a spell’s Trapping.


PROFESSIONAL EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Ace Novice, AGI d8 Character may spend Bennies to Soak damage for his vehicle and ignores up to 2 points of penalties.

Acrobat Novice, AGI d8, Athletics d8 Free reroll on acrobatic Athletics attempts.

Combat Acrobat Seasoned, Acrobat −1 to hit with ranged and melee attacks.

Assassin Novice, AGI d8, Fighting d6, Stealth d8 +2 to damage foes when Vulnerable or assassin has The Drop.

Investigator Novice, SMA d8, Research d8 +2 to Research and certain types of Notice rolls.

Jack-of-all-Trades Novice, SMA d10 Gain d4 in a skill (or d6 with a raise) until replaced.

McGyver Novice, SMA d6, Repair d6, Notice d8 Quickly create improvised devices from scraps.

Mr. Fix It Novice, Repair d8 +2 to Repair rolls, half the time required with a raise.

Scholar Novice, Research d8 +2 to any one “knowledge” skill.

Soldier Novice, Seasoned d6, VIG d6 Strength is one die type higher for Encumbrance and Min Str. Reroll Vigor rolls when resisting environmental Hazards.

Thief Novice, AGI d8, Stealth d6, Thievery d6 +1 Thievery, Athletics rolls made to climb, Stealth in urban environments.

Woodsman Novice, SPI d6, Survival d8 +2 to Survival and Stealth in the wilds.


SOCIAL EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Bolster Novice, SPI d8 May remove Distracted or Vulnerable state after a Test.

Common Bond Wild Card, Novice, SPI d8 The hero may freely give her Bennies to others.

Connections Novice Contacts provide aid or other favors once per session.

Humiliate Novice, Taunt d8 Free reroll when making Taunt rolls.

Menacing Novice, See Text +2 to Intimidation.

Provoke Novice, Taunt d6 May “provoke” foes with a raise on a Taunt roll. See text.

Rabble-Rouser Seasoned, Spirit d8 Once per turn, affect all foes in a Medium Blast Template with an Intimidation or Taunt Test.

Reliable Novice, SPI d8 Free reroll when making Support rolls.

Retort Novice, Taunt d6 A raise when resisting a Taunt or Intimidation attack makes the foe Distracted.

Streetwise Novice, SMA d6 +2 to Common Knowledge and criminal networking.

Strong Willed Novice, SPI d8 +2 to resist Smarts or Spirit-based Tests.

Iron Will Seasoned, Brave, Strong Willed The bonus now applies to resisting and recovery from powers.

Work the Room Novice, SPI d8 Once per turn, roll a second die when Supporting via Performance or Persuasion and apply result to additional ally.

Work the Crowd Seasoned, Work the Room As above, but up to twice per turn.


WEIRD EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Beast Bond Novice The hero may spend Bennies for animals under her control.

Beast Master Novice, SPI d8 Animals like your hero and he has a pet of some sort. See text.

Champion  Novice, SPI d8, Fighting d6 +2 damage vs. supernaturally evil creatures.

Chi Veteran, Martial Warrior Once per combat, reroll failed attack, make enemy reroll successful attack, or add +d6 to unarmed Fighting attack.

Danger Sense Novice Notice roll at +2 to sense ambushes or similar events.

Healer Novice, SPI d8 +2 to Healing rolls, magical or otherwise.

Liquid Courage Novice, VIG d8 Alcohol increases Vigor a die type and ignores one level of Wound penalty; –1 to Agility, Smarts, and related skills.

Scavenger Novice, Luck May find a needed item once per encounter.


LEGENDARY EDGES
EDGE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Followers Wild Card, Legendary The hero has five followers.

Professional Legendary, Max Trait The character’s Trait and its limit increases one step.

Expert Legendary, Professional in Trait The character’s Trait and its limit increases one step.

Master Wild Card, Legendary, Expert in Trait The character’s Wild Die is a d10 with a chosen Trait.

Sidekick Wild Card, Legendary The character gains a Wild Card sidekick.

Tough as Nails Legendary, VIG d8 The hero can take four Wounds before being Incapacitated.

Tougher than Nails Legendary, Tough as Nails, VIG d12 The hero can take five Wounds before being Incapacitated.

Weapon Master Legendary, Fighting d12 Parry increases by +1 and Fighting bonus damage die is d8.

Master of Arms Legendary, Weapon Master Parry increases another +1 and Fighting bonus damage die is d10.
