Hindrance Summaries
All Thumbs (Minor): -2 to use mechanical or electrical devices.
Anemic (Minor): -2 Vigor when resisting Fatigue.
Arrogant (Major): Likes to dominate his opponent, challenge the most powerful foe in combat.
Bad Eyes (Minor/Major): -1 to all Trait rolls dependent on vision, or -2 as a Major Hindrance. Eyewear negates penalty but have a 50% chance of breaking when the hero suffers trauma.
Bad Luck (Major): The characters starts with one less Benny per session.
Big Mouth (Minor): Unable to keep secrets and constantly gives away private information.
Blind (Major): -6 to all tasks that require vision (but choice of a free Edge to offset).
Bloodthirsty (Major): Never takes prisoners.
Can't Swim (Minor): -2 to swimming (Athletics) rolls; Each inch moved in water costs 3\u201d of Pace.
Cautious (Minor): The character plans extensively and/or is overly careful.
Clueless (Major): -1 to Common Knowledge and Notice rolls.
Clumsy (Major): -2 to Athletics and Stealth rolls.
Code of Honor (Major): The character keeps his word and acts like a gentleman.
Curious (Major): The character wants to know about everything.
Death Wish (Minor): The hero wants to die after or while completing some epic task.
Delusional (Minor/Major): The individual believes something strange that causes him occasionalor frequent trouble.
Doubting Thomas (Minor): The character doesn't believe in the supernatural, often exposing him tounnecessary risks.
Driven (Minor/Major): The hero's actions are driven by some important goal or belief.
Elderly (Major): -1 to Pace, running, Agility, Strength, and Vigor. Hero gets 5 extra skill points.
Enemy (Minor/Major): The character has a recurring nemesis.
Greedy (Minor/Major): The individual is obsessed with wealth and material possessions.
Habit (Minor/Major): Addicted to something, suffers Fatigue if deprived.
Hard of Hearing (Minor/Major): -4 to Notice sounds; automatic failure if completely deaf.
Heroic (Major): The character always helps those in need.
Hesitant (Minor): Draw two Action Cards and take the lowest (except Jokers, which may be kept).
Illiterate (Minor): The character cannot read or write.
Impulsive (Major): The hero leaps before he looks.
Jealous (Minor/Major): The individual covets what others have.
Loyal (Minor): The hero is loyal to his friends and allies.
Mean (Minor): -1 to Persuasion rolls.
Mild Mannered (Minor): -2 to Intimidation rolls.
Mute (Major): The hero cannot speak.
Obese (Minor): Size +1, Pace -1 and running die of d4. Treat Str as one die type lower for Min Str.
Obligation (Minor/Major): The character has a weekly obligation of 20 (Minor) to 40 (Major) hours.
One Arm (Major): -4 to tasks (such as Athletics) that require two hands.
One Eye (Major): -2 to actions at 5\u2033 (10 yards) or more distance.
Outsider (Minor/Major): The character doesn't fit in to the local environment and subtracts 2 fromPersuasion rolls. As a Major Hindrance she has no legal rights or other serious consequences.
Overconfident (Major): The hero believes she can do anything.56''Pacifist (Minor/Major): Fights only in self-defense as a Minor Hindrance, won't fight at all as Major.
Phobia (Minor/Major): The character is afraid of something, and subtracts -1/-2 from all Trait rollsin its presence.
Poverty (Minor): Half starting funds and the character is always broke.
Quirk (Minor): The individual has some minor but persistent foible that often annoys others.
Ruthless (Minor/Major): The character does what it takes to get her way.
Secret (Minor/Major): The hero has a dark secret of some kind.
CharaCterSShamed (Minor/Major): The individual is haunted by some tragic event from her past.
Slow (Minor/Major): Pace -1, reduce running die one step. As Major, Pace -2, -2 to Athletics androlls to resist Athletics. Neither may take the Fleet-Footed Edge.
Small (Minor): Size and Toughness are reduced by 1. Size cannot be reduced below -1.
Stubborn (Minor): The character wants his way and rarely admits his mistakes.
Suspicious (Minor/Major): The individual is paranoid. As a Major Hindrance, allies subtract 2when rolling to Support him.
Thin Skinned (Minor/Major): The character is particularly susceptible to personal attacks. As aMinor Hindrance, he subtracts two when resisting Taunt attacks. As a Major, he subtracts four.
Tongue-Tied (Major): The character often misspeaks or can't get her words out. -1 to Intimidation,Persuasion, and Taunt rolls.
Ugly (Minor/Major): The character is physically unattractive and subtracts 1 or 2 from Persuasion rolls.
Vengeful (Minor/Major): The adventurer seeks payback for slights against her. As a MajorHindrance, she'll cause physical harm to get it.
Vow (Minor/Major): The individual has pledged himself to some cause.
Wanted (Minor/Major): The character is wanted by the authorities.
Yellow (Major): -2 to Fear checks and resisting Intimidation.
Young (Minor/Major): Minor has 4 attribute points and 10 skill points, extra Benny per session. Major has 3 attribute points, 10 skill points, and two extra Bennies per session.57'