Trait Summaries
ATTRIBUTES
Agility: Nimbleness, dexterity, and overall physical coordination of muscles and reflexes.
Smarts: Raw intellect, perception, and ability to sort and make use of complex information.
Spirit: Inner strength and willpower.
Strength: Raw muscle power.	
Vigor: Endurance, health, and constitution.

SKILLS
Academics (Smarts): Knowledge of liberal arts, social sciences, literature, history, etc.
Athletics (Agility): Overall athletic coordination and ability. Climbing, jumping, balancing, wrestling, skiing, swimming, throwing, or catching.
Battle (Smarts): Strategy, tactics, and understanding military operations. A key skill in Mass Battles.
Boating (Agility): Ability to sail or pilot a boat, ship, or other watercraft.
Common Knowledge (Smarts): General knowledge of a character's world.
Driving (Agility): The ability to control, steer, and operate ground vehicles.
Electronics (Smarts): The use of electronic devices and systems.
Faith (Spirit): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Miracles).
Fighting (Agility): Skill in armed and unarmed combat.
Focus (Spirit): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Gifted).
Gambling (Smarts): Skill and familiarity with games of chance.
Hacking (Smarts): Coding, programming, and breaking into computer systems.
Healing (Smarts): The ability to treat and heal Wounds and diseases, and decipher forensic evidence.
Intimidation (Spirit): A character's ability to threaten others into doing what she wants.
Language (Smarts): Knowledge and fluency in a particular language.
Notice (Smarts): General awareness and perception.
Occult (Smarts): Knowledge of supernatural events, creatures, history, and ways.
Performance (Spirit): Singing, dancing, acting, or other forms of public expression.
Persuasion (Spirit): The ability to convince others to do what you want.
Piloting (Agility): Skill with maneuvering vehicles that operate in three dimensions, such as airplanes,helicopters, spaceships, etc.
Psionics (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Psionics).
Repair (Smarts): The ability to fix mechanical and electrical gadgets.
Research (Smarts): Finding written information from various sources.
Riding (Agility): A character's skill in mounting, controlling, and riding a tamed beast.
Science (Smarts): Knowledge of scientific fields such as biology, chemistry, geology, engineering, etc.
Shooting (Agility): Precision with any type of ranged weapon.
Spellcasting (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Magic).
Stealth (Agility): The ability to sneak and hide.
Survival (Smarts): How to find food, water, or shelter, and tracking.
Taunt (Smarts): Insulting or belittling another. Almost always done as a Test (page 108).
Thievery (Agility): Sleight of hand, pickpocketing, lockpicking, and other typically shady feats.
Weird Science (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Weird Science).